Zhian N. Kamvar
245 S. 15th St.
Philomath, OR, 97370
kamvarz@science.oregonstate.edu
(541) 286-0187

---

EDUCATION
Ph.D., Botany and Plant Pathology, expected 2017
Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR

Bachelor of Science, Biology
Truman State University, Kirksville, MO, December 2007
Minor: Chemistry

---

TECHNICAL SKILLS
Computer Languages: R - proficient, Perl - familiar, Python - familiar,
BASH - familiar, C - used in the past
Lab Skills: Sterile technique, DNA extraction, PCR amplification.

---

SELECTED EXPERIENCE

Graduate Research Assistant
Mar 2012 to Present
Grünwald Lab, OSU, Corvallis, OR

• Designed and executed simulation analyses for populations of partially clonal
diploids.
• Authored an R package for genetic analysis of populations with mixed
(sexual/clonal) reproduction. (http://cran.r-project.org/package=poppr)
• Isolated and maintained cultures of Phytophthora syringae.
• Research Advisor: Dr. Niklaus J. Gr ̈nwald

Graduate Teaching Assistant
Jan 2012 to Mar 2012
Biology Department, OSU, Corvallis, OR
• Appointed as a teaching assistant for an undergraduate intro biology course for
science majors.
• Developed introductory presentations and quizzes for labs.
• Proctored all tests and quizzes.
• Graded assignments and provided students with timely feedback.
• Held office hours once a week.

Graduate Research Assistant
Aug 2011 to Dec 2011
Jaiswal Lab, OSU, Corvallis, OR
• Engaged in various research projects combining bioinformatic-based text mining
of databases, wet lab, and greenhouse work.
• Research Advisor: Dr. Pankaj Jaiswal

Undergraduate Research Assistant
May 2006 to Dec 2007
Biology Discipline, Truman State University
• As part of a team of undergraduate students, contributed to the annotation of
over 2,000 maize genes determined by microarray hybridization analysis to be
involved in maize shoot apical meristem function and leaf primordial formation.
• Became proficient in performing and interpreting BLAST and InterProScan
searches on sequences, identifying and assessing pertinent primary literature,
and using a variety of databases to determine the putative function of maize
genes.
• Collaborated with other researchers on the same project.
• Research mentors: Drs. Brent Buckner and Diane Janick-Buckner.

---

SELECTED PRESENTATIONS / PUBLICATIONS

Poster, Fungal Genetics Conference
Mar 12-17, 2013
Asilomar, CA
• “Poppr: An R package for genetic analysis of populations with mixed
(clonal/sexual) reproduction.”

Talk, 26th Annual Biology Graduate Student Symposium
Mar 2, 2013
Hatfield Marine Science Center, Newport, OR
• “Poppr: An R package for genetic analysis of populations with mixed
(clonal/sexual) reproduction.”

Buckner B, Beck J, Browning, K, Hoxha E, Grantham L, *Kamvar Z*, Lough A,
Nikolova O, and Schnable PS, Scanlon MJ, and Janick-Buckner D. 2007 Involving
undergraduates in the annotation and analysis of global gene expression studies:
creation of a maize shoot apical meristem expression database. Genetics 176: 741-
747

Poster, Maize Genetics Conference
Mar 22-25, 2007
St. Charles, IL
• “Annotation and Analysis of Global Gene Expression Studies: Creation of a
Maize Shoot Apical Meristem Expression Database”

---

EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES

Treasurer
Sep 2012 to Present
Botany and Plant Pathology Graduate Student Association, OSU

Radio Co-host
Jan 2012 to Present
Inspiration Dissemination, 88.7FM, KBVR Corvallis
• Scientific discussion and outreach

Active member
Bioinformatics Users Group, OSU
Sep 2012 to Present

