Rich FitzJohn [5:36 PM] The first paragraph (always the hardest) feels wasted
to me, and a little jumbled, with the section in bold jumping out oddly.
There's also more space here to shine, and you can trim down the header section
dramatically to get you another paragraph.  We always read the cover letter
first, then scan CVs for keywords.  You need to make sure you highlight the
things that we should go digging for.

What matters and is *not* highlighted here in the first paragraph:

* you have experience in diverse fields
* you have experience coordinating groups of varying technological expertise
  and experience
* you have experience managing projects and juggling competing demands and
  priorities, delegating work (see the "managing the review board" section)
* you have a passion for testing and have successfully got other people
  motivated to test software - you might hint at having an appreciation of
  where current testing derived from traditional software engineering falls short
  for scientific applications (I'm sure you must) - looking here at the
  responsibility "Create new testing frameworks for R packages"

In general I think you undersell the *coordination* parts of your R4Epis work,
and that would sit nicely along side the already strong technical chops that
you've focussed on in the letter.

Second paragraph is excellent.  This would definitely guarantee a closer read
of a CV.  You might add a second and 3rd footnote to alongside 1 pointing at
recon and r4epis

You might, where flattering, use "N years experience in/with" for things like
R, package development, testing, CI.  It's always super hard to gauge
experience but number of years can be a useful proxy.

I think you might benefit like the last substantive paragraph in my cover
letter (above) where you state your aim to become a full time RSE.

---

In your CV your title is postdoc but the first sentence of your cover letter
lists you as an RSE.  I know that this is complicated to get right given one is
official and one is practical but you need to square that circle somewhere.

Current research rection should mention that you're working as an RSE, mention
the recon and R4Epis projects by name.

The collaborations section should include Recon as you are down as "Secretary,
Software Development coordinator" - that's all stuff that should be in here!
The reconlearn stuff should be more prominently arranged too.  The work you did
on developing process recently there would be a good thing to highlight.

The R4Epis section is too passive "developed code summaries to tailored to the
expectations" - you gathered the expectations and iterated through with the MSF
folks and that does not come through here - it sounds like you are working to
an existing spec.  Similarly, "Developed contributed templates" becomes
"Developed system for reviewing templates developed by [ROLEs], and worked with
[WHOEVER] to review the templates" - even if this was just agreeing to stuff
everything into a PR, you came up with a system and that is super relevant to
this position.

Conversely, it sounds like you ran the two described hackathons ("I have taken
a leading role in the following...")

In computational experience "My goal in software development isto ensure that
my applications areopen, andaccessibleto researchers regardless ofcomputational
skills" - mention testing and robustness.
